Add support for the Digital Credentials API (#476)
openid/OpenID4VCI: openid-4-verifiable-credential-issuance-1_0.md

  </front>
</reference>

<reference anchor="W3C.Digital_Credentials_API" target="https://wicg.github.io/digital-credentials/">
        <front>
          <title>Digital Credentials API</title>
		  <author fullname="Marcos Caceres">
            <organization>Apple Inc.</organization>
          </author>
          <author fullname="Tim Cappalli">
            <organization>Okta</organization>
          </author>
          <author fullname="Sam Goto">
            <organization>Google</organization>
          </author>
        </front>
</reference>

# OpenID4VCI over the Digital Credentials API {#dc_api}

This section defines how to use OpenID4VCI with the Digital Credentials API.

> The name "Digital Credentials API" (DC API) encompasses the W3C Digital Credentials API [@!W3C.Digital_Credentials_API]
> as well as its native App Platform equivalents in operating systems (such as [Credential Manager on Android](https://developer.android.com/jetpack/androidx/releases/credentials)).
> The DC API allows web sites and native apps acting as Issuers to initiate the issuance of verifiable credentials.
> The API itself is agnostic to the Credential issuance protocol and can be used with different protocols.
> The Web Platform, working in conjunction with other layers, such as the app platform/operating system, and based on the permission of the End-User, will send the credential offer along with the Origin of the Issuer to the End-User's chosen Wallet.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The term "Digital Credentials API" (DC API) encompasses the W3C Digital Credentials API [@!W3C.Digital_Credentials_API]
as well as its native App Platform equivalents in operating systems (such as [Credential Manager on Android](https://developer.android.com/jetpack/androidx/releases/credentials)).
The API itself is agnostic to the Credential issuance protocol and can be used with different protocols.
When the DC API is used with this specification, it allows web sites and native apps acting as Issuers to initiate the issuance of verifiable credentials.
The Web Platform, working in conjunction with other layers, such as the app platform/operating system, and based on the permission of the End-User, will send the Credential Offer along with the Origin of the Issuer to the End-User's chosen Wallet.
```

## Protocol

To use OpenID4VCI with the Digital Credentials API (DC API), the exchange protocol value has the following format: `openid4vci-v<version>`.

> The value `1` MUST be used for the `<version>` field to indicate the request and response are compatible with this version of the specification.

Reviewer 2: Do we need to be explicit here that the version essentially constitutes a MAJOR version as per semver and therefore implementations should adopt the robustness principle when it comes to things like ignoring unknown elements in maps/objects to support forward compatibility with minor changes?

The following exchange protocol values are defined by this specification:

* `openid4vci-v1`

> ## Credential Offer {#dc_api_credential_offer}

Reviewer 3: I see potential for other requests, i.e. calling DC-API to continue a deferred issuance with `transaction_id`

Reviewer 2: Do you mean like using the DC API to notify the wallet that a deferred issuance is now ready for issuance?

Reviewer 2: That was my understanding too @tlodderstedt but I think @paulbastian is saying perhaps there is potential to use the DC API to notify a wallet about the change in status to a deferred credential issuance flow, like the credential is now ready to be picked up, did I get that right @paulbastian? If so I think there is quite a bit of complexity to unpack there before we could support it.

> The Issuer sends the Credential Offer object to the Digital Credentials API. All of the Credential Offer parameters MAY be used. The Credential Offer object has been extended to include the following parameters:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The Issuer sends the Credential Offer object to the Digital Credentials API. All of the Credential Offer parameters MAY be used. As some implementations of the DC API may not allow to network calls, the Credential Offer object is extended to include the following parameters:
```

Reviewer 4: I think it's more "to allow all the installed wallets to figure out if they can handle the request without fetching external data that may result in data being leaked without user consent"? Not sure.

Reviewer 2: I think thats probably right as its highlighting why some DC API implementations have this limitation.

> * `credential_issuer_metadata`: REQUIRED. The Issuer's Credential Issuer Metadata object as defined in (#credential-issuer-parameters).

Reviewer 5: feels somewhat redundant?
```suggestion
* `credential_issuer_metadata`: REQUIRED. The Credential Issuer Metadata object as defined in (#credential-issuer-parameters).
```

> * `authorization_server_metadata`: OPTIONAL. The Authorization Server metadata object as defined by Section 2 of [@!RFC8414]. When provided the `authorization_server` parameter must not be present.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* `authorization_server_metadata`: REQUIRED. The Authorization Server metadata object as defined in (#as-metadata).
```

The following is a non-normative example of OpenID4VCI Credential Offer over the DC API.

```js
navigator.credentials.create({
  digital: {
    requests: [
      {
        protocol: "openid4vci-v1",
        data: {
          credential_issuer: "...",
          credential_configuration_ids: [...],
          grants: {...}
          credential_issuer_metadata: {...},
          authorization_server_metadata: {...}
        }
      }
    ]
  }
})
```

## Response {#dc_api_response}

The Wallet must validate the Credential Offer and return an object with the following parameter:

* `status`: REQUIRED. A string containing one of the status codes defined in this section.

> The following status codes are supported:

Author: TODO: Need to decide what error codes to support here.

Reviewer 3: probably offer_declined?

> `offer_accepted`:

Reviewer 6: Clarifying question: is the idea the issuer sends the offer and gets a confirmation from the wallet, but the actual issuance happens in a separate, parallel process within the wallet?

Reviewer 5: That would be my understanding right now, the DC API flow basically succeeds with reaching a wallet
